Assistance for Single Moms in Delaware

Single moms can receive aid and assistance in all cities and counties across the state of Delaware. Assistance programs help with free food, housing costs, rent, energy bills, mortgages, free health care, and more.

Food Banks in Delaware
Free food and possibly other forms of non-financial aid can be offered to those single moms who are facing a hardship or who may be low income by a food bank or pantry in the state. Contact the Food Bank of Delaware by calling 302-292-1305.

Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) - Food Stamps
Low-income single moms in Delaware are encouraged by the Food Supplemental Program (FSP) to purchase the food they need to maintain adequate nutrition levels for themselves and their children. Electronic Benefit Transfer (EBT) is the system through which the benefits are issued. By 6:00 a.m. the next morning, when benefits are approved, the benefits are posted to the client’s account. 800-221-5689 for more information on the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP).

General Assistance
For lower income single moms and those who do not qualify for federally funded aid programs, such as Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) or Social Security, General Assistance is a Delaware funded program that was designed to provide cash assistance and grans.

Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF)
Offering single mothers temporary financial aid until they can obtain a job, is the main goal of the TANF assistance program, being Delaware’s main government grant and cash assistance program. The funds can be used for different needs such as rent, food, housing, and other needs. 800-464-4357 for more information on eligibility and benefits.

Head Start
Head Start is a Federal program that aims to enhance the cognitive, emotional, and social development of children from birth to age five from low income families making sure they are school ready. Language, literacy, and social and emotional development are some area where the program can support a child’s growth. The role of parents is emphasized by the program as their child’s first and most important teacher. To find a Head Start or Early Head Start program near you, call 866-763-6481.

Mortgage Assistance and Foreclosure Prevention Programs
Single moms who need help with paying their mortgage or stop a foreclosure are encouraged by the state of Delaware to seek help. With the aim of taking advantage of all available programs the state will show its support.
Additionally, low cost housing and foreclosure prevention can also be provided by non-profits. Contact the Delaware State Housing Authority for more information at 888-383-8808.

Emergency Assistance Services and Rent
The Emergency assistance program will help single moms pay for rent, food, utilities and emergency shelter. In order to help prevent homelessness and maintain self-sufficiency eligible lower income families are provided with financial aid.

Delaware Social Services and Government Assistance
A number of low-income programs across the region are being ran by the state’s Division of Social Services. Single mothers may apply for free grants for paying energy bills, medications, and low cost of free food and medical care. To find out what assistance program is suited for your needs call the Delaware Division of Social Services at 800-464-4357.

Child Care Services and Vouchers
Destined for single moms and families with younger children, the program will help these families keep a job, obtain employment training or meet the special needs of the child, by assisting with child care. 302-892-5800 for more information.

Emergency Financial Aid
Operating several centers in Delaware, the Salvation Army, a leading non-profit, can offer programs that include heating bill assistance, food, emergency housing, Christmas assistance, and ongoing case management if necessary.

Low Cost or Free Medical Care
Families and single mothers are being provided access to free or reduced cost health care, prescriptions, and dental assistance by medical professionals, volunteers, nurses and others.
Numerous centers also focus on dental needs, in addition to all the medical care provided from the sources mentioned above.
Medical care in the form of prescriptions, check ups, assistance for children, lab work, cancer tests and other services are provided by government programs to those patients who lack health insurance.

Delaware Healthy Children Program
With the possibility of even moderate income families to be able to qualify, this is a low-cost health insurance assistance program for the uninsured children in Delaware. 800-372-2022

Delaware Prescription Assistance Program (DPAP)
Destined for the elderly and/or disabled individuals in Delaware, this is a program that will help them pay for prescription drug medicine. You may obtain an application for prescription assistance, and any help you may need filling out an application, by calling 800-996-9969.

Legal Aid and Representation
Pro-bono law firms and attorneys in Delaware offer low income families, single moms, seniors and the working poor free advice and legal representation, with an emphasis on civil legal cases that the families face. Contact the Community Legal Aid Society, Inc. for help by calling 302-478-8850.

Delaware Unemployment Insurance
If eligibility requirements are met, financial assistance is provided through unemployment insurance benefits to workers unemployed through no fault of their own. You must have worked in Tennessee during the past 12 to 18 months and have earned at least a minimum amount of wages, in order to qualify for this benefit program. For more information New Castle County residents can dial 302-761-6576 while Kent & Sussex County residents can dial 800-794-3032.

Government Grants, Employment, and Self-Sufficiency
Several programs that oversee government assistance such as rental help and funds for paying energy bills are being administered by non-profit community action agencies. Job training, meals, food assistance, and educations, are all services that are also included.

Delaware Energy and Heating Bill Programs
Financial assistance as well as ways to save money through conservation is what most of the utility and gas companies that operate in the state can offer to low income single moms. Call Catholic Charities to find out how to apply for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), Kent County: 302-674-1782, New Castle Count: 302-654-929, Sussex County: 302-856-6310.


Child Care Assistance-Purchase of Care (POC)
Child Care Assistance-Purchase of Care is a program that provides support for families to pay for child care. Child care allows caretakers to hold a job, obtain training or meet special needs of the child or parent. If you are working, you may have to pay a portion of your child care expenses.

If you are qualified for Purchase of Care (POC) you can receive additional help finding child care. Call 1-800-734-2388 to speak to a child care specialist.

Purchase of Care Provider Handbook_FINAL1_25_2023

Read additional information about Purchase of Care (POC) that was put together by the Institute for Public Administration at the University of Delaware.

Purchase of Care 101
Delaware’s Early Childhood System & the Economy
Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF)
Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) is Delaware’s main cash assistance program. The goal of TANF is to give people temporary help until they get a job.

Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP)
Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) helps people with low incomes pay their energy bills.

Food Assistance

Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) is a food supplemental program that enables low-income families to buy food that is the basis for better nutrition.

Women, Infants and Children Program (WIC) is a federal nutrition program that helps pregnant women, new mothers, and young children eat well, learn about nutrition, and stay healthy.

The Delaware Department of Education Nutrition Programs include:

the National School Lunch Program,
the School Breakfast Program,
the Child and Adult Care Food Program,
the Summer Food Service Program,
the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program, and
The Special Milk Program.
For serving healthy food to children, organizations get paid to fight hunger and obesity. Examples of participants include:

schools
child care centers
family child care providers
after-school programs
non-profit organizations.
Medical Assistance
The Division of Social Services provides six main types of medical assistance services. Learn what they are and if you qualify for help.


Child Care Services

This service provides support for families with children to enable the caretaker to hold a job, obtain training or meet special needs of the parent or child. Child care may also be provided in child abuse cases to help protect the child. If you are working, you may have to pay a portion of your child care expenses. Contact a DSS office to get more information on the program rules and fees.

Eligibility:
Child care services are available for children under the age of 13. The Division of Social Services determines eligibility based on a family's income and need for service. The income limit is currently set at 185% of the Federal Poverty Level (FPL). If your child is older than 13 and has a special need, you still may be eligible to receive child care.

2023-2024 Child Care Income Limits
2023-2024 CHILD CARE INCOME LIMITS (Effective October 1, 2023 - September 30, 2024)

Family Size

Maximum Gross Monthly Income at Application
185% FPL

Maximum Gross Monthly Income at Redetermination
200% FPL

Maximum Gross Monthly Income During Authorization
85% SMI

1

$2,248

$2,430

$4,121

2

$3,041

$3,288

$5,388

3

$3,833

$4,144

$6,656

4

$4,625

$5,000

$7,924

5

$5,419

$5,858

$9,192

6

$6,210

$6,714

$10,460

7

$7,002

$7,570

$10,698

8

$7,796

$8,428

$10,935

9

$8,590

$9,286

$11,173

10

$9,383

$10,144

$11,411


2023-2024 Child Care Copayment Scale
2023-2024 CHILD CARE COPAYMENT SCALE (Effective October 1, 2023 - September 30, 2024)

Family Size

Excessive Financial Burden for Copayments
< 40% FPL

Waived Copayments
< 70% FPL

4% of Gross Income Applied to Copayments
> 70%-105% FPL

9% of Gross Income Applied to Copayments
> 105%-200% FPL

1

$486

$851

$852-$1,276

$1,277-$2,430

2

$658

$1,151

$1,152-$1,726

$1,727-$3,288

3

$829

$1,450

$1,451-$2,176

$2,177-$4,144

4

$1,000

$1,750

$1,751-$2,625

$2,626-$5,000

5

$1,172

$2,050

$2,051-$3,075

$3,076-$5,858

6

$1,343

$2,350

$2,351-$3,525

$3,526-$6,714

7

$1,514

$2,650

$2,651-$3,974

$3,975-$7,570

8

$1,686

$2,950

$2,951-$4,425

$4,426-$8,428

9

$1,857

$3,250

$3,251-$4,875

$4,876-$9,286

10

$2,029

$3,550

$3,551-$5,326

$5,327-$10,144


To be financially eligible for child care assistance, a family's gross monthly income must be at or below 185% of the FPL for the family size.

If a family's gross monthly income has increased to between 185% and 200% of the FPL at their yearly redetermination, then the family will receive a graduated phase-out of child care assistance for a twelve-month period before the child care case is closed.

Any time that a family's gross monthly income exceeds 85% of the SMI or the family no longer has a need for child care assistance, the child care case will close.

 You may choose your child care provider from:

A State-licensed Child Care Center
A State-licensed Child Care family home
Choosing the right program for your child is one of the most important parenting decisions you will make. For more information on choosing a quality child care provider please click the link below.

Office of Child Care Licensing

New Consumer Education Website: My Child DE
The Division of Social Services is pleased to announce the launch of Delaware's first comprehensive consumer education website, "My Child DE". On this site parents, providers and the public at large will find information on early care and educational programming in our state. The site will also assist parents in making more informed choices regarding childcare. Other information that can be found on the site includes various child care options and how to access them, quality rating information, information on developmental milestones and developmental screenings, licensing requirements, criminal background check requirements, monitoring results, DSS services, etc. We look forward to all feedback as we continue to improve and enhance the site. Please use the following link to access My Child DE

For information on Delaware Stars :
Delaware Stars for Early Success is a Quality Rating and Improvement System (QRIS) for early care and education programs, used to assess, improve and communicate the level of quality.

Visit their website for more information on eligibility or click here for the application process for the Delaware Early Education and Child Care Stabilization Fund.

For more information select Flyer for Delaware Stars

Child Care Locator Service
Need help choosing child care? Please call Children and Families First at 1-800-220-3092.

Child Care and Development Fund (CCDF) Plan
You can find Delaware's Child Care and Development Fund (CCDF) Plan on the Publications and Forms page.

Assistance for Relatives
The Delaware Division of Services for Aging and Adults with Physical Disabilities provides resources to assist grandparents or other relatives who are raising another person's children. Please select this link for more information.

http://www.dhss.delaware.gov/dhss/dsaapd/caregive.html

2021 Delaware Local Child Care Market Rate Survey: Final Report
2021 MRS Final Report

Child Care Provider Daily Reimbursement Rates
The Division of Social Services used the 2018 Delaware Local Child Care Market Rate Survey results to set the provider reimbursement rates for child care services subsidized by the State. The child care reimbursement rates are based on the providers geographical location, the ages of the children served, and the hours of care. DSS established the child care reimbursement rates to ensure that low-income families receiving child care subsidy have equal access to early education and care.


Click here for Delaware's Special Needs Legislative Report, May 2023
Click here for Appendix A Cost Estimation
Click here for Delaware's 2021 Cost of Care Study: Final Report

FFY 2023 Purchase of Care (POC) Child Care Rates
Daily Rates Effective July 1, 2023
By County

DELAWARE COST OF QUALITY CHILD CARE ESTIMATOR TOOL
As required by HB 250 Section 183. The Department of Health and Social Services (DHSS) and the Department of Education (DOE), in consultation with the Delaware Early Childhood Council (DECC), has created a cost of quality child care estimator tool, which enables the state to model the actual costs of providing quality child care. Delaware engaged Prenatal to Five Fiscal Strategies (P5FS) to support the development of the cost of quality child care estimator tool customized for the state of Delaware. The work on the cost estimator tool was informed by Delaware's 2021 Cost of Care Study, the 2021 Market Rate Survey, the child care wage scale work completed in 2022, national and local experts, advocates, and early childhood educators. P5FS is led by national early childhood finance experts Jeanna Capito and Simon Workman, P5FS has developed cost estimation models for several states and communities. Their models have informed child care subsidy rate setting and other early childhood policies and are aligned with cost model guidance provided by the U.S. Office of Child Care for alternative rate setting under the Child Care Development Block Grant. We are excited to share the cost of care estimator tools, you will find links to Delaware's Center and Family Child Care Cost Estimation Tools below. We are also pleased to share the Cost Estimation Model Report for the project below.

Child Care Center Cost of Quality Care Estimator Tool - https://8fd54934-afdf-4222-bf73-b95e3b6260ee.usrfiles.com/ugd/8fd549_56b968f57d714eea84b3c6aaeebd6785.xlsx

Family Child Care Cost of Quality Care Estimator Tool - https://8fd54934-afdf-4222-bf73-b95e3b6260ee.usrfiles.com/ugd/8fd549_ec585524501141879c6045c6b0f4e79d.xlsx

Cost of Quality Estimator Tool Report - https://dhss.delaware.gov/dhss/dss/files/DECostEstimationReportMarch22.pdf

Child Care Estimator Memo 09-2020 - https://dhss.delaware.gov/dhss/dss/files/UpdatedBasicCostofCareDelawareChildCareEstimatorMemo9-2020.pdf

https://dhss.delaware.gov/dhss/dss/childcr.html


211 Delaware
Delaware 2-1-1 provides one central resource for access to the health and human service organizations that offer the support to make a difference. Whether faced with the panic of a natural disaster or struggling to meet everyday basic needs, Delaware residents can rely on 2-1-1 for a direct response and prompt assistance.

211 Help Me Grow
Help Me Grow will connect you to help for a healthy pregnancy, screening that will help make sure your child’s growth is on track, and support for being the best parent you can be. Help Me Grow helps you get the health and services you need.

American Academy of Pediatrics
The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) promotes pediatrics and advances child health priorities in a variety of ways including developing policy, conducting research, lobbying Congress, building coalitions, raising public awareness, funding community-based projects, and supporting training and professional education.

atTACK Addiction
atTAcK addiction is a 501(c)(3) non-profit group created in memory of Tyler Armstrong Keister after his accidental overdose. Our goal is to help young people realize the dangers of alcohol and drugs so that they and their families never have to experience the pain, tragedy and loneliness that accompany addiction.
​
The main purpose of the group is to educate and bring awareness of addiction as a disease, rather than the stigma that is suffered in shame by the person with the disease and their loved ones. Attack Addiction seeks to educate by speaking at schools, prisons and any other venues where there is an interest in learning more about the disease of addiction. We strive to bring real and effective change to existing drug policy, We are not a support group, but we end up supporting those in recovery, those who have a loved one in recovery or those who have lost a loved one to the disease.

Autism Delaware
Navigating the autism world can be complex and overwhelming. If you are a parent or caregiver seeking answers, we can help you with comprehensive, accessible, family-centered support.

We provide support for families with new autism diagnoses and families who need ongoing support through two programs, our Autism Care Team (ACT) program and our Family Navigation program.

Beau Biden Foundation
The Beau Biden Foundation works to prevent child abuse through educating adults and children, developing the next generation of child welfare professionals and strengthening child protection laws around the country.

Birth to Three Regional Programs (previously known as Child Development Watch)
The statewide early intervention program for children ages birth to 3. The program’s mission is to enhance the development of infants and toddlers with disabilities or developmental delays and to enhance the capacity of their families to meet the needs of their young children.

Black Mothers In Power
Black Mothers in Power seeks to eradicate racial health disparities for Black birthing people and Black babies throughout Delaware. Black Mothers in Power envisions a state where all Black birthing people are informed about their birthing rights, have autonomy over their reproductive decisions, and are treated equitably in the healthcare system.

Books Balls & Blocks (BBB)
Books Balls & Blocks (BBB) offers free, fun family events that provide early childhood developmental screenings for children 9 months to 5 years old (siblings are welcome too!). Come play with your child and learn how games and activities stimulate your child’s development. Skill-building activities focus on: Communication and language, Cognition and problem solving, Gross and fine motor skills and Literacy.

Breastfeeding Coalition of Delaware
The Breastfeeding Coalition of Delaware strives to protect, promote, and support breastfeeding in Delaware by imparting current and evidence-based information and skills to enable parents, families, health practitioners, and community leaders to make informed decisions.

Business First Steps
Business First Steps guides users through the steps to open a business in Delaware

Catholic Charities
Catholic Charities of the Diocese of Wilmington is a faith-based, social services organization, delivering programs to help with basic needs, food assistance, emergency shelter, counseling, immigration support and weatherization.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention fights disease and supports communities and citizens to do the same.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Milestones App
Learn about and Download the easy to use milestone tracker app from the CDC. It is available for IOS and Apple in English and Spanish.

Champions for Children’s Mental Health
Champions for Children’s Mental Health empowers, inspires and educates Delaware families caring for children with behavioral and mental health concerns. We believe in the dignity of every family, in the importance of hope and the unique value of lived experience.

We use our experience and training to help families with children who have behavioral and/or mental health challenges. Our specialized experience allows us to advocate on behalf of these families with children who have mental or behavioral health challenges.

Our team offers support, connects families with resources and services, and can help you navigate care systems.

Family support services have been shown to reduce hospitalizations, improve caregiver outcomes, increase family well-being, and help to unite families.

Champions for Children’s Mental Health supports families who do not have private insurance. Children do not need to be active with any type of treatment or services for families to participate. Champions for Children is striving to offer support at the earliest stage of family need. Families can now self-refer with proof of their child’s diagnosis.

Child and Adult Care Food Program (CACFP)
A federal program that gives cash reimbursements to child care institutions and family day care home for providing meals and snacks that meet federal nutritional guidelines to the children in their care.

Child Care and Development Fund State Plan
The Child Care and Development Fund (CCDF) Plan serves as an application for the Child Care and Development Block Grant (CCDBG) funds by providing a description of, and assurance about, the Delaware’s child care program and all services available to eligible families.

Child Care Association of Sussex County (Sussex County Director’s Group)
A group of professionals who meet on a monthly basis, rotating among child care programs, community halls, libraries, and more! The group provides a tight-knit network of both Family Child Care Providers, and Center-Based Providers. Providers participate as a sounding board, support group, and idea launchpad for anyone functioning within an administrative capacity in and around Sussex County. Participation is open to anyone within the Early Childhood Field, regardless of their location. For more information, please email sussexearlyed@outlook.com

Child Care Aware of America
Child Care Aware of America® is a national organization that helps families learn how to locate and choose quality child care in their communities.

Child Find
If you think your child ages 3yrs-5yrs might have a developmental delays or a disability, please contact the Child Find department within your school district. You can find the full list of phone number on the Delaware Department of Education website. If you are unsure which school district you live in, you can search with your address.

Child Inc.
A social service agency offering programs including counseling services for children and families, foster care homes, Delaware’s only shelter for abused and neglected children, parent education, two shelters for battered women and their children, advocacy for domestic violence victims, a domestic violence hotline and a family visitation center.

Childcare.gov
ChildCare.gov provides links to State or Territory child care websites that parents use to search for child care and consumer education information.

Children & Families First
CFF strengthens Delaware families through programs that support healthy babies, new moms, early care and education, teens, positive parenting, family resources, community schools, the workplace, foster care and adoption.

Children’s Choice
Children’s Choice of Delaware is a non-profit, Christian, social service agency providing foster care, adoption, post permanency, Kinship Navigation, Family Intervention and Interstate Compact services. The goal of each program is to provide the children and families served with quality, individualized services aimed at helping each child and family reach their highest potential.

Community Legal Aid Society, INC
CLASI’s mission is to combat injustice through creative and persistent civil legal advocacy on behalf of vulnerable and underserved Delawareans.

CLASI provides free legal services to:
People with disabilities, as Delaware’s Protection and Advocacy System
Older citizens (60 and over)
Victims of housing discrimination, under HUD’s Fair Housing Initiative Program
People living in poverty
Victims of domestic violence
Immigrant victims of crime, abuse and neglect
CLASI is committed to racial and ethnic fairness in the delivery of our services.
CLASI has offices in Wilmington, Dover and Georgetown.
Consumer Statement
DHSS is required to provide CCDF eligible families a statement in hard copy or electronically. Delaware is including their statement on mychildde.

COVID-19 Resources for Child Care Professionals
This is a list of best practices resources to assist Child Care Professionals. Some are specifically about COVID-19 and others are resources that can be used now and at any time. General topics are: COVID-19 information, online learning, activities for children, health and safety and community resources.

COVID-19 Resources for Families
This is a list of best practices resources to assist families. Some are specifically about COVID-19 and others are resources that can be used now and at any time. General topics are: COVID-19 information, online learning, activities for children, health and safety and community resources.

Deaf and Hard of Hearing Children and Family Services
The vision of Delaware School for the Deaf Statewide Programs is to support and enhance the communicative, cognitive and social emotional skills of all students who are deaf, hard of hearing or deaf-blind in Delaware.

With a focus on “the whole child,” DSD Statewide Programs’ teachers, specialists, and support staff work with children who have hearing loss or hearing/vision loss and their families. Furthermore, we also consult with local school districts and stakeholder groups within the region in order to meet and raise awareness of the unique needs of children with hearing or hearing/vision loss.

 

DEEDS
The Delaware Department of Education (DDOE) is responsible for credentialing early childhood and K-12 professionals to work in Delaware early childcare centers, public districts and charter schools, adult education programs, and prison education facilities.

Delaware Afterschool Network
Along with their partners, this organization works to: create a long-term policy voice for afterschool programs; support policies that bolster high-quality programs; and increase public awareness regarding afterschool programs.

Delaware Association for the Education of Young Children (Deaeyc)
An affiliate of the National Association of the Education of Young Children (NAEYC), the leading membership association for those working with and on behalf of children from birth through age eight. Founded in 1969, deaeyc serves and acts on behalf of the needs, rights, and well-being of all young children and their families in Delaware. Deaeyc has also led the state’s Advocacy work for Early Childhood Education (ECE). Deaeyc currently is offering a variety of professional development opportunities for the ECE workforce.

Delaware Coalition Against Domestic Violence
The Delaware Coalition Against Domestic Violence envisions a First State where safe, healthy, equitable relationships, families and communities thrive. Find information and support for domestic violence victims/survivors.

Delaware Department of Education (DOE)
Everything you need to know about education in the state of Delaware. The Office of Early Learning (OEL) and Office Of Child Care Licensing (OCCL) are part of DOE.

Delaware Division of Public Health Lead Poisoning Prevention
The Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Program protects the health of Delawareans by preventing childhood lead poisoning and promoting health among children (0 – 6 years of age) through education, safe environments, screening and early intervention.

Delaware Early Childhood Council
The mission of the Delaware Early Childhood Council (ECC) is to promote the development of a comprehensive and coordinated early childhood system, birth to eight, which provides the highest quality services and environment for Delaware’s children and their families.

Delaware Early Learner Survey (DE-ELS)
An observational tool used by kindergarten teachers to record children’s knowledge and shills that lead to success in kindergarten and through life. See results from previous years.

Delaware Early Learning Goverance
Looking out for Delaware’s youngest is the job of many state offices. This chart outlines how Delaware’s agencies are organized within different departments and divisions.

Delaware Family Fatherhood Coalition
The Delaware Fatherhood & Family Coalition (DFFC) is an extension of the Promoting Safe and Stable Families Program and the Responsible Fatherhood Initiative created specifically to give a voice to fathers and the importance of their involvement for the well-being of their children.

Delaware First Professional Development for Early Childhood
Delaware First is a system where an early learning professional’s trainings are reviewed. The review will determine their level so that he/she can work in early childhood centers or school-age programs. Delaware First also offers Career Advisement before and during the process. Delaware First has been replaced with DEEDS.

Delaware Guidance
Delaware Guidance Services provide quality therapeutic services to children, youth, and their families to increase their social, emotional, and behavioral wellness.

Delaware Hands and Voices
Delaware Hands and Voices is part of a nationwide non-profit organization dedicated to supporting families and their children who are deaf or hard of hearing, as well as the professionals who serve them. They are a parent-driven, parent/professional collaborative group that is unbiased towards communication modes and methods. Delaware Hands and Voices provides connection, information, advocacy, and community. The Guide By Your Side program matches families with parent guides trained to provide unbiased information and support for whatever path each family chooses. Other services include: a free lending library, a monthly e-newsletter, quarterly national newspaper, speakers and workshops to teach advocacy, safety, and other topics vital to our members. In addition, they host free social events to foster community.

Delaware Hospice
We provide the highest quality healthcare and grief counseling services to an entire community, regardless of age. But children are special. Our children’s programs are expressly tailored to the unique needs of children and their families. The Children’s Programs include palliative care and children’s grief support.

Delaware Institute for Excellence in Early Childhood (DIEEC)
The Delaware Institute for Excellence in Early Childhood (DIEEC) provides services to Delaware’s early childhood community to improve the quality of the child care programs and support the early childhood educator’s professional development.


Delaware Professional Development Now!
Online training website for child care providers built through a partnership between Delaware Department of Education, Delaware Office of Early Learning, Nemours Health Systems and Delaware Institute for Excellence in Early Childhood.

Delaware Readiness Teams
A statewide initiative of volunteer based teams that strengthens communities at a local level and help children from birth through age eight get ready for school and life. The current statewide initiatives are kindergarten readiness and registration, developmental screening and family empowerment.

Delaware Stars for Early Success (DE Stars)
The revision of the early childhood quality improvement system (QIS), led by the state revision team, resumed fall of 2022. Consistent with legislated requirements, the state is adopting a single set of quality indicators for licensed early childhood programs in Delaware.

A voluntary program used to measure, improve and communicate the level of quality in early care and education and school-age settings.

Delaware’s revised Quality Improvement System (QIS) includes three Quality Indicators that represent broad content areas. Each Quality Indicator includes a set of Key Practices that help to define the Quality Indicator.

Delaware State Housing Authority (DSHA)
The Delaware State Housing Authority provides and assists others to provide, quality, affordable housing opportunities and appropriate supportive services to low- and moderate-income Delawareans.

Delaware Thrives
DE Thrives connects you with resources, programs and social networks for reproductive life planning, having a healthy pregnancy, raising healthy babies and more. Some main initiative include home visiting, safe sleep, healthy smiles, healthy women, help me grow, my life my plan, man up plan up, family shade and thriving community.

Division of Prevention and Behavioral Health Services
The Division of Prevention and Behavioral Health Services, also known as DPBHS, serves Delaware families through prevention and early intervention programs that promote safe and healthy children, nurture families and communities, support social and academic success, and improve early identification of needs.

Division of Social Services
The Division of Social Services offers finnancial supports for low-income families

Do Care Doula Foundation, Inc
Do Care Doula Foundation, Inc is a non profit aimed at eliminating birth disparities in the Black Community. Our goal is to provide Doula support at free or no cost to members of this endangered population by using grants.

Dolly Parton’s Imagination Library
Dolly Parton’s Imagination Library is dedicated to inspiring a love of reading by gifting books free of charge to children from birth to age five.

Early Childhood Innovation Center
The ECIC is an exciting initiative leading the charge to unapologetically provide holistic and comprehensive programs and supports for the Delaware Early Childhood Community. To learn more about this innovative program join the ECIC’s email list, to stay up to date on the program incentives, stipends and scholarship opportunities that will be available beginning in June 2023! Click HERE to join or go to tinyurl.com/theecic. Contact the ECIC at ECIC@desu.edu.

Early Childhood Learning & Knowledge Center (ECKLC)
The Early Childhood Learning Knowledge Center ( ECLKC) is the primary online resource for Head Start programs. It is also available to the early learning community and families outside of the Head Start community. ECLKC has a wealth of information on current topics as well as professional development, health and safety, family engagement, etc.

Easter Seals of Delaware
Easter Seals Delaware is prepared to respond to the needs of people living with disability services for all disabilities throughout the lifespan.

Eating Smart and Moving More
Eating Smart and Moving More is part of the Expanded Food and Nutrition Education Program (EFNEP) at the University of Delaware Cooperative Extension and provides hands-on nutrition education through a series of lessons. Each group usually meets once a week for six weeks. Best of all it is free to those who are eligible! Participants will learn about healthy eating and cooking for less, saving money at the grocery store, keeping food safe, being active, preparing tasty foods and planning meals for their family. Participants will also receive some tools and food throughout the program.

 

Expulsion and Suspension in Early Childhood Programs Policy Draft
Delaware is committed to ensuring that all of our children receive the best early education possible by using a proactive and systemic approach to building resilience, and finding alternatives to preschool suspension and expulsion. Using this as a foundation, Delaware has developed this “Best Practice Statement for the Prevention of Expulsion and Suspension from Early Childhood Programs.”

Family Life Project
The Family Life Project provides resources to enhance your family life from A-Z. This includes youth programs, self-assessments, counseling services, national emergency resources, listing of nationwide parenting classes, articles, and relationship guides.

Family Promise of Northern New Castle County
Family Promise of Northern New Castle County helps local communities coordinate their compassion to address the root causes of family homelessness. We address the issue holistically, providing diversion services to divert families from shelter altogether, shelter and case management when they become homeless, and stabilization programs once they have secured housing to ensure they remain independent. We tap existing local resources to empower families towards economic stability. Families come to us in crisis; we help them rebuild their lives with new skills and ongoing support.

Family Promise of Southern Delaware
Family Promise of Southern Delaware, Inc. (FPSDE) has been established as an affiliate of Family Promise, a non-profit advisory corporation based in New Jersey. The purpose of FPSDE is to unite faith-based community groups in efforts to provide hospitality, meals, accommodations, and re-stabilization services to families with children that are experiencing homelessness.

​

Family SHADE
Family SHADE, the Family Support and Healthcare Alliance Delaware: A community dedicated to supporting families of children with disabilities and chronic medical conditions.

Family To Family Health Information Center-Delaware Family Voices
Receiving a diagnosis of a disability for your child can turn your world upside down. As a parent, you know you will do what is necessary to help your child. How do you know what your child’s needs are? Who will help you find the information? We are here to support families of children with special health care needs. Housed at the Parent Information Center of Delaware, the Family-to-Family Health Information Center (formally known as Delaware Family Voices) is here to help. We will provide you with information, resources, emotional support and the comfort of knowing that someone else gets it. You are not alone.

First State Community Action Agency
First State Community Action Agency’s mission is to eliminate the root causes of poverty, by operating a variety of programs designed to support clients with emergencies, heating/cooling, youth, family, training and employment.

Food Bank of Delaware
A statewide nonprofit agency whose vision is a community free of hunger

Friendship House
Friendship House works with people who are experiencing homelessness, houselessness, or both. Homelessness and houselessness are defined differently. Homelessness is the loss of community and houselessness is the loss of one’s physical residence. When someone loses their community and is experiencing homelessness, houselessness can be quick to follow. Someone can lose their residency suddenly, and then they may experience homelessness. Therefore, FH strives to ensure every person is ultimately connected to a loving supportive community in order to break the cycle of homelessness and houselessness.

Grandparent Resource Center
The Wilmington Senior Center created the Grandparent Resource Center in 1997 to support the growing number of grandparents who are raising their grandchildren. Today, more than 10,000 families in Delaware are headed by grandparents or relative care givers.

The Grandparent Resource Center is dedicated to the empowerment of these relative care givers’ families and the children they’re raising. The centers provide:

Information, referrals, individual care management
Weekly/monthly peer support group meetings
Monthly educational programs
Help finding resources to strengthen families
 

Healthy Families Delaware
A new baby is exciting and a stressful time of change and questions. Healthy Families Delaware is a voluntary home visiting program offered at no cost to first-time pregnant persons (greater than 29 weeks pregnant), pregnant again and have other children, and/or mothers, fathers, or guardians with babies 3 months of age or younger. A Family Support Specialist will journey with you during pregnancy, through your child’s infancy and toddlerhood.

Healthy Foods for Healthy Kids
Healthy Foods for Healthy Kids (HFHK) is a non-profit organization whose mission is to inspire healthier lives by providing youth with joyful school gardening experiences and opportunities to eat the garden-fresh vegetables they’ve grown.

We do this in several ways, two of which are our Education Cultivation Program (K-12) and our new Early Learners Program (PreK).

In these programs, HFHK works with schools, daycares, and educational facilities to build gardens where we then provide STEM based curriculums (that fit within Next Generation Science Standards), seeds, and any necessary support to keep things growing! A large majority of our programs are grant funded so they are provided to the community at low-cost or free of charge!

Help Is Here Delaware
Mental illness and addiction can affect anyone. No one has to struggle alone. Get help now! Choose the best way to get the care you need, right here in Delaware. All services are free, and any referrals are available to you, whether you have insurance or not.

Impact Life
Impact Life currently offers peer-led recovery support services Statewide. In addition, we operate recovery residences independently as well as in partnership with atTAcK addiction for those re-entering society post-residential treatment. We offer a Workforce Development program featuring comprehensive recovery services, career development, expungement and pardon programs, and peer support. Our Workforce development initiatives include job fairs and COVID-19 vaccination campaigns Statewide. In November, 2022 we are launching Delaware’s first Recovery Farm, The Sanctuary at Impact Life Farm, which will offer housing, case management, peer support, and animal-assisted therapy, coupled with a therapeutic agricultural workforce development program.

Jewish Family Services of Delaware
The mission of Jewish Family Services of Delaware is to strengthen individuals, families and the community by providing counseling and support services.

Kids Count
Kids Count in Delaware provides high-quality data about the well-being of children, youth and their families for the purpose of effecting positive changes in policy, priorities and programs.

Kids Health from Nemours
Easy-to-follow articles, slideshows, videos, and health tools designed to help families learn, grow, and be their best.

Lead-Free Delaware
Lead poisoning is preventable. There are no safe levels of exposure to lead and there are no safe levels of lead in children’s blood. Find information on how to get your child screened for lead.

Love and Hope Rescue Mission
Love and Hope Rescue Mission was founded in 2014. Since then, they have helped hundreds of individuals with their daily needs, jobs, financial independence, housing, healthcare, abuse, as well as Spanish and Haitian Creole supports for families.

Lutheran Community Services
LCS helps individuals and families address food, housing, and other essential needs with dignity and respect. LCS has been serving low-income families in Wilmington and New Castle County, Delaware since 1959.

Military OneSource
Military OneSource has personal and family resources for members of the military.

Ministry of Caring
Ministry of Caring is a community-based nonprofit organization that provides those living in poverty in the greater Wilmington area support services such as child care, dining rooms, emergency shelter and housing options.

National Alliance on Mental Illness Delaware
The National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) is the nation’s largest grassroots mental health organization dedicated to building better lives for the millions of Americans affected by mental illness.

NAMI Delaware was founded in 1983 by Simon and Jill Shute along with a group of families desperate for support for their loved ones. Over the years the organization has grown to provide a wide range of awareness, advocacy, support, education and housing to support those affected by mental illness in Delaware.