Assistance for Single Moms in Delaware

Single moms can receive aid and assistance in all cities and counties across the state of Delaware. Assistance programs help with free food, housing costs, rent, energy bills, mortgages, free health care, and more.

Food Banks in Delaware
Free food and possibly other forms of non-financial aid can be offered to those single moms who are facing a hardship or who may be low income by a food bank or pantry in the state. Contact the Food Bank of Delaware by calling 302-292-1305.

Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) - Food Stamps
Low-income single moms in Delaware are encouraged by the Food Supplemental Program (FSP) to purchase the food they need to maintain adequate nutrition levels for themselves and their children. Electronic Benefit Transfer (EBT) is the system through which the benefits are issued. By 6:00 a.m. the next morning, when benefits are approved, the benefits are posted to the client’s account. 800-221-5689 for more information on the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP).

General Assistance
For lower income single moms and those who do not qualify for federally funded aid programs, such as Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) or Social Security, General Assistance is a Delaware funded program that was designed to provide cash assistance and grans.

Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF)
Offering single mothers temporary financial aid until they can obtain a job, is the main goal of the TANF assistance program, being Delaware’s main government grant and cash assistance program. The funds can be used for different needs such as rent, food, housing, and other needs. 800-464-4357 for more information on eligibility and benefits.

Head Start
Head Start is a Federal program that aims to enhance the cognitive, emotional, and social development of children from birth to age five from low income families making sure they are school ready. Language, literacy, and social and emotional development are some area where the program can support a child’s growth. The role of parents is emphasized by the program as their child’s first and most important teacher. To find a Head Start or Early Head Start program near you, call 866-763-6481.

Mortgage Assistance and Foreclosure Prevention Programs
Single moms who need help with paying their mortgage or stop a foreclosure are encouraged by the state of Delaware to seek help. With the aim of taking advantage of all available programs the state will show its support.
Additionally, low cost housing and foreclosure prevention can also be provided by non-profits. Contact the Delaware State Housing Authority for more information at 888-383-8808.

Emergency Assistance Services and Rent
The Emergency assistance program will help single moms pay for rent, food, utilities and emergency shelter. In order to help prevent homelessness and maintain self-sufficiency eligible lower income families are provided with financial aid.

Delaware Social Services and Government Assistance
A number of low-income programs across the region are being ran by the state’s Division of Social Services. Single mothers may apply for free grants for paying energy bills, medications, and low cost of free food and medical care. To find out what assistance program is suited for your needs call the Delaware Division of Social Services at 800-464-4357.

Child Care Services and Vouchers
Destined for single moms and families with younger children, the program will help these families keep a job, obtain employment training or meet the special needs of the child, by assisting with child care. 302-892-5800 for more information.

Emergency Financial Aid
Operating several centers in Delaware, the Salvation Army, a leading non-profit, can offer programs that include heating bill assistance, food, emergency housing, Christmas assistance, and ongoing case management if necessary.

Low Cost or Free Medical Care
Families and single mothers are being provided access to free or reduced cost health care, prescriptions, and dental assistance by medical professionals, volunteers, nurses and others.
Numerous centers also focus on dental needs, in addition to all the medical care provided from the sources mentioned above.
Medical care in the form of prescriptions, check ups, assistance for children, lab work, cancer tests and other services are provided by government programs to those patients who lack health insurance.

Delaware Healthy Children Program
With the possibility of even moderate income families to be able to qualify, this is a low-cost health insurance assistance program for the uninsured children in Delaware. 800-372-2022

Delaware Prescription Assistance Program (DPAP)
Destined for the elderly and/or disabled individuals in Delaware, this is a program that will help them pay for prescription drug medicine. You may obtain an application for prescription assistance, and any help you may need filling out an application, by calling 800-996-9969.

Legal Aid and Representation
Pro-bono law firms and attorneys in Delaware offer low income families, single moms, seniors and the working poor free advice and legal representation, with an emphasis on civil legal cases that the families face. Contact the Community Legal Aid Society, Inc. for help by calling 302-478-8850.

Delaware Unemployment Insurance
If eligibility requirements are met, financial assistance is provided through unemployment insurance benefits to workers unemployed through no fault of their own. You must have worked in Tennessee during the past 12 to 18 months and have earned at least a minimum amount of wages, in order to qualify for this benefit program. For more information New Castle County residents can dial 302-761-6576 while Kent & Sussex County residents can dial 800-794-3032.

Government Grants, Employment, and Self-Sufficiency
Several programs that oversee government assistance such as rental help and funds for paying energy bills are being administered by non-profit community action agencies. Job training, meals, food assistance, and educations, are all services that are also included.

Delaware Energy and Heating Bill Programs
Financial assistance as well as ways to save money through conservation is what most of the utility and gas companies that operate in the state can offer to low income single moms. Call Catholic Charities to find out how to apply for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), Kent County: 302-674-1782, New Castle Count: 302-654-929, Sussex County: 302-856-6310.



food closet
Member agencies of the Food Bank of Delaware distribute food to households through food closets and mobile pantry programs in Delaware.  All State Service Centers also distribute emergency food to households in need.

Funding for this program was made available through the State Budget Epilogue dating back to the 1980's when statistics evidenced a need for more resources to address the supply needs of food programs throughout the State. These funds have continued to be made available as a line item in the Division of State Service Centers budget for this important purpose. The current providers of these services statewide are Food Bank of Delaware and Catholic Charities. Contractor information can be found at the following link: Community Food and Nutrition Program Services.
For further information, contact the Division of State Service Centers.

The Community Services Block Grant (CSBG), administered by the State of Delaware, Division of State Service Centers, Office of Community Services provides core funding to local agencies to reduce poverty, revitalize low-income communities and to em-power low-income families to become self-sufficient. The CSBG is currently authorized under the 1998 CSBG Act. There are three national CSBG program Goals: Goal 1: Individuals and families with low incomes are stable and achieve economic security. Goal 2: Communities where people with low incomes live are healthy and offer economic opportunity. Goal 3: People with low incomes are engaged and active in building opportunities in communities. The State of Delaware subcontracts these services through its only Community Action Agency, First State Community Action Agency, Inc. First State has been Delaware's sole eligible entity since May of 1994 (22 YEARS). The agency subcontracts part of its allotment for case management services in New Castle and Kent Counties with seven or more nonprofits every year. First State operates a variety of programs designed to educate, motivate, and support persons on the road to self-sufficiency. These programs focus on: Emergency Assistance, Seniors, Family Resources, Housing, Training & Employment and, Youth Services.
For more information regarding the Community Services Block Grant, please contact:
Division of State Service Centers
Herman Holloway Campus
Charles Debnam Building - Office of Community Services
ATTN: CSBG Administrator
1901 N. Dupont Highway
New Castle, DE 19720
Tel: (302) 255-9875
Fax: (302) 255-4463


Emergency and Transitional Housing Services

The Division of State Service Centers, Office of Community Services administers 100% State General funds to private, non-profit agencies in Delaware that provide Emergency Shelter, and/or Transi􀆟onal Housing to homeless individuals and families. These funds provide opera􀆟onal assistance to agencies as they serve families and individuals who are experiencing homelessness. Current Shelter and/or Transitional Housing providers can be found by reviewing our Emergency/Transitional Housing Shelter Operations Grant table which can be found here.

For community resources and assistance please contact a State Service Center.
For further information please contact:
Division of State Service Centers
Herman Holloway Campus
Charles Debnam Building - Office of Community Services
ATTN: Emergency Transitional Housing Administrator
1901 North DuPont Highway
New Castle, DE 19720
Phone: (302) 255-9875
Fax: (302) 255-4463

Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP)

The Delaware Energy Assistance Program (DEAP) is a federally funded program that helps vulnerable populations stay safe and healthy through initiatives that assist households, and individuals, with their energy bills, energy crises, weatherization, and energy-related home repairs. The Division of State Service Centers (DSSC) administers this program on a contractual basis with local agencies. Funding for these programs is provided by the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services (HHS), under the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). DEAP services assist income eligible citizens financially by reducing their costs of energy related expenses. Income eligibility is defined as 60% of Delaware State Median Income (SMI), after Federal and local taxes have been deducted. LIHEAP is a supplemental payment program and is not designed to cover all the heating cost. DEAP has several programs of assistance which include:

Winter Heating Fuel Assistance: Helps with home energy bills between October 1 and March 31. Eligible households can receive a benefit to offset their seasonal heating cost. Eligible heating sources include electricity, natural gas, oil, kerosene, propane, coal, and wood. Benefits are available to both homeowners and renters.
Crisis Assistance: Is available year-round and can be received in addition to the seasonal fuel assistance benefits. Households must show they are experiencing a crisis, such as having received a shut-off or disconnect notice, a fuel tank reading at or below 10%, or are presently experiencing past due utility bills.
Summer Cooling Assistance Program: Is a flat supplemental benefit for summer cooling electric assistance. It is available to households who have previously applied for LIHEAP assistance, within the program year, aimed at offsetting the cost of electricity to cool their home during the summer months. This program also offers a single-room in-window air conditioner to households who can demonstrate a need.
Weatherization Assistance Program: The Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control, DNREC, offers a free Weatherization Assistance Program to help establish comfortable, energy-saving homes. This program is run through the Division of Climate, Coastal and Energy, helps homeowners and renters cut their energy bills by weatherproofing and improving the energy efficiency of their homes. If you have any questions, please call us at 302-735-3480 and ask for Weatherization program.
Information to websites where you can apply for assistance for Winter Heating Fuel Assistance, Crisis Assistance, Summer Cooling Assistance Program and Weatherization Assistance Program.

ASSIST SELF SERVICE

Individuals may apply for benefits online for LIHEAP and other programs, at any time during the day or night from a home, library, healthcare clinic, community center or any location with internet access.

Catholic Charities Diocese of Wilmington

Click here for LIHEAP Assistance. You may also call the following phone numbers for assistance:

For Energy Assistance in New Castle County, call 302-654-9295.

For Energy Assistance in Kent County, call 302-674-1782.

For Energy Assistance in Sussex County, call 302-856-6310.

For assistance in completing a Heating application, please contact (302) 397-8408 and/or visit 19 Lambson Lane Rosehill Community, Center Suite A 109, New Castle, DE 19720

Energy Coordinating Agency - ECA

Contact Delaware Energy Assistance Program for information on how to apply for Energy assistance.

800 North King Street
King Street Plaza Suite 202
Wilmington, DE 19801

Phone: 215-609-1000

Fax: (302) 467-2521 Fax

Email: DEAPDocs@ecasys.org

Weatherization Assistance Program

The Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control, DNREC, offers a free Weatherization Assistance Program to help establish comfortable, energy-saving homes. This program is run through the Division of Climate, Coastal and Energy, helps homeowners and renters cut their energy bills by weatherproofing and improving the energy efficiency of their homes. If you have any questions, please call us at 302-735-3480 and ask for Weatherization program.

Summer Cooling Assistance Program

Information on where you can apply for assistance for Summer Cooling Assistance Program.

FIRST STATE COMMUNITY ACTION AGENCY

308 N. Railroad Ave.
Georgetown, DE 19947

Email: info@firststatecaa.org

Tel: 800-372-2240

From the main website, click on "Get Started" and then select "Summer Cooling (Air Conditioner) Program."

For additional information, you may also, contact:

Division of State Service Centers
Herman Holloway Campus
Charles Debnam Building - Office of Community Services
Attn: LIHEAP
1901 North DuPont Highway
New Castle, DE 19720
Phone: (302) 255-9875
Fax (302) 255-4463

Family Visitation Centers provide a continuum of services designed to help address custody and visitation issues in families with a history of domestic violence and abuse. Visitation centers are located statewide and offer an appropriate way to provide for safe visitation and exchange, along with flexible visitation alternatives on weekends, evenings and holidays.

Clients are referred by family court.

For further information, contact Family Court.

For information on Supervised Visitation Awareness Orange Ribbon Campaign, please click on the image below.

The Division of State Service Centers provides several types of services to assist people in need.

Emergency Services help those who need immediate assistance to meet basic needs such as utilities, rent, or housing.
Individual and Family Services assist persons and families with a number of supportive services ranging from help for relatives taking care of minor children to distributing prescription medications to seniors. Such services also include family visitation centers which provide safe, neutral settings where children can maintain or re-establish a relationship with a non-custodial parent and information and referral through the Delaware Helpline (http://www.delawarehelpline.org/ ).
Community Services assist with the revitalization of low-income communities and help to empower low-income families and individuals to become self-sufficient.

RENTAL HELP: DELAWARE
Subsidized Apartments
HUD helps apartment owners offer reduced rents to low-income tenants. To apply, contact or visit the management office of each apartment building that interests you.
Search for a subsidized apartment

Public Housing and Housing Choice Vouchers (Section 8)
To apply for either type of help, visit your local Public Housing Agency (PHA).
PHAs in Delaware
Links to PHA websites
Questions? Email or call our Public and Indian Housing Information Resource Center toll-free at (800) 955-2232.
Some PHAs have long waiting lists, so you may want to apply at more than one PHA. Your PHA can also give you a list of locations at which your voucher can be used.

Need advice?
Contact a housing counseling agency
HUD Resource Locator - search for HUD offices, affordable housing, public housing agencies and homeless resources

Other Delaware Resources
Delaware State Housing Authority - find out if you qualify for state-funded rental assistance programs
2-1-1 Infoline - rental housing search and assistance with housing issues
Find units for rent in rural Delaware
Independent living centers - for seniors and people with disabilities
Search for federal tax credit rental housing
Help with your utility bills
Tenant rights, laws and protections
Housing resources for seniors
 
More From HUD
What is Public Housing?
What are Housing Choice Vouchers?
Fair housing
More rental assistance
Income limits
Landlords
Tenants
Senior citizens
People with disabilities