Assistance for Single Moms in Delaware

Single moms can receive aid and assistance in all cities and counties across the state of Delaware. Assistance programs help with free food, housing costs, rent, energy bills, mortgages, free health care, and more.

Food Banks in Delaware
Free food and possibly other forms of non-financial aid can be offered to those single moms who are facing a hardship or who may be low income by a food bank or pantry in the state. Contact the Food Bank of Delaware by calling 302-292-1305.

Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) - Food Stamps
Low-income single moms in Delaware are encouraged by the Food Supplemental Program (FSP) to purchase the food they need to maintain adequate nutrition levels for themselves and their children. Electronic Benefit Transfer (EBT) is the system through which the benefits are issued. By 6:00 a.m. the next morning, when benefits are approved, the benefits are posted to the client’s account. 800-221-5689 for more information on the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP).

General Assistance
For lower income single moms and those who do not qualify for federally funded aid programs, such as Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) or Social Security, General Assistance is a Delaware funded program that was designed to provide cash assistance and grans.

Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF)
Offering single mothers temporary financial aid until they can obtain a job, is the main goal of the TANF assistance program, being Delaware’s main government grant and cash assistance program. The funds can be used for different needs such as rent, food, housing, and other needs. 800-464-4357 for more information on eligibility and benefits.

Head Start
Head Start is a Federal program that aims to enhance the cognitive, emotional, and social development of children from birth to age five from low income families making sure they are school ready. Language, literacy, and social and emotional development are some area where the program can support a child’s growth. The role of parents is emphasized by the program as their child’s first and most important teacher. To find a Head Start or Early Head Start program near you, call 866-763-6481.

Mortgage Assistance and Foreclosure Prevention Programs
Single moms who need help with paying their mortgage or stop a foreclosure are encouraged by the state of Delaware to seek help. With the aim of taking advantage of all available programs the state will show its support.
Additionally, low cost housing and foreclosure prevention can also be provided by non-profits. Contact the Delaware State Housing Authority for more information at 888-383-8808.

Emergency Assistance Services and Rent
The Emergency assistance program will help single moms pay for rent, food, utilities and emergency shelter. In order to help prevent homelessness and maintain self-sufficiency eligible lower income families are provided with financial aid.

Delaware Social Services and Government Assistance
A number of low-income programs across the region are being ran by the state’s Division of Social Services. Single mothers may apply for free grants for paying energy bills, medications, and low cost of free food and medical care. To find out what assistance program is suited for your needs call the Delaware Division of Social Services at 800-464-4357.

Child Care Services and Vouchers
Destined for single moms and families with younger children, the program will help these families keep a job, obtain employment training or meet the special needs of the child, by assisting with child care. 302-892-5800 for more information.

Emergency Financial Aid
Operating several centers in Delaware, the Salvation Army, a leading non-profit, can offer programs that include heating bill assistance, food, emergency housing, Christmas assistance, and ongoing case management if necessary.

Low Cost or Free Medical Care
Families and single mothers are being provided access to free or reduced cost health care, prescriptions, and dental assistance by medical professionals, volunteers, nurses and others.
Numerous centers also focus on dental needs, in addition to all the medical care provided from the sources mentioned above.
Medical care in the form of prescriptions, check ups, assistance for children, lab work, cancer tests and other services are provided by government programs to those patients who lack health insurance.

Delaware Healthy Children Program
With the possibility of even moderate income families to be able to qualify, this is a low-cost health insurance assistance program for the uninsured children in Delaware. 800-372-2022

Delaware Prescription Assistance Program (DPAP)
Destined for the elderly and/or disabled individuals in Delaware, this is a program that will help them pay for prescription drug medicine. You may obtain an application for prescription assistance, and any help you may need filling out an application, by calling 800-996-9969.

Legal Aid and Representation
Pro-bono law firms and attorneys in Delaware offer low income families, single moms, seniors and the working poor free advice and legal representation, with an emphasis on civil legal cases that the families face. Contact the Community Legal Aid Society, Inc. for help by calling 302-478-8850.

Delaware Unemployment Insurance
If eligibility requirements are met, financial assistance is provided through unemployment insurance benefits to workers unemployed through no fault of their own. You must have worked in Tennessee during the past 12 to 18 months and have earned at least a minimum amount of wages, in order to qualify for this benefit program. For more information New Castle County residents can dial 302-761-6576 while Kent & Sussex County residents can dial 800-794-3032.

Government Grants, Employment, and Self-Sufficiency
Several programs that oversee government assistance such as rental help and funds for paying energy bills are being administered by non-profit community action agencies. Job training, meals, food assistance, and educations, are all services that are also included.

Delaware Energy and Heating Bill Programs
Financial assistance as well as ways to save money through conservation is what most of the utility and gas companies that operate in the state can offer to low income single moms. Call Catholic Charities to find out how to apply for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), Kent County: 302-674-1782, New Castle Count: 302-654-929, Sussex County: 302-856-6310.



Grants for Single Mothers in Delaware

Delaware has never turned its back on low-income families. Single mothers can find comfort in knowing that many programs are willing to take care of them and their children.


Delaware Workforce Individual Training Account (ITA)

The Delaware Department of Labor has Individual Training Account (ITA) grants to help unemployed or underemployed single mothers. This free money helps you to obtain a good education and improve your employment chances. Current skills, education and work experience are considered in your application.


Ezoic
Call or visit a Dept. of Labor Division of Employment and Training center near you and take the steps to apply. Contact the Delaware Workforce Development Board for general questions at dwib@state.de.us.

Unemployment Insurance (UI) for single mothers

Have a question? Email us here anything that troubles you.


Ezoic
++ Popular grants for single mothers

$16,000 Grant from Soroptimist International
$27,000 Grant from The Amber Foundation
$500 from Artist Grant
$4000 SMART Grant from the Federal Government
$1,000 Kickass Single Mom Grant from Wealthy Single Mommy
$1000 Cash Grant from Idea Cafe
$7,500 Grant from Halstead
$5,000 from the Wal-Mart Foundation’s Community Grant Program
Up to $50,000 from the The Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts
Up to $5,900 from the Federal Government’s Pell Grant
The state’s Division of Unemployment Insurance has benefits for the recently and long-term unemployed. File your claim for Unemployment Insurance (UI) on the Delaware Works website.

People living in New Castle County should call (302) 761-6576, and those living in Kent or Sussex County should call (800) 794-3032.

Section 8 Program for single mothers

Section 8 housing vouchers are given to individuals and families in need. Delaware State Housing Authority (DSHA) has hundreds of vouchers for people living in the Kent and Sussex Counties. Find a list of available housing units online or call 1-877-428-8844. Apply using the online application, download one from the DSHA website, or call an office near you. The public information office is available at (302) 739-4263.

Head Start

Delaware Head Start is a federal program that helps low-income children from birth to 5 years of age. View the poverty level requirements on the Department of Education website.

Find the closest Head Start program to you and call or visit the site to apply.

Child Care Subsidy

The Division of Social Services (DSS) provides subsidies to help you pay for child care. Age, income limits and financial needs are considered to determine eligibility.

Through DSS, apply for benefits on the ASSIST website. Reach out to the DSS office in your county. Also, find the right child care provider by calling 1-800-220-3092.

Delaware Healthy Children Program (DHCP)

The Delaware Healthy Children Program (DHCP) has healthcare options for children of low-income families. Call 1-800-996-9969 to request an application or print one from the DHCP site and mail it to the New Castle office. You can apply online through the ASSIST site.

Medicaid

Delaware has a Medicaid program for eligible, low-income residents. Learn more about Medicaid programs and services. Then, apply online through the ASSIST website. Call (302) 571-4900 or (800) 464-4357 for Medicaid customer service.

Food Supplement Program (FSP)

DSS has a Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), also called Food Supplement Program (FSP). Apply through ASSIST. The SNAP hotline is available at (800) 221-5689 or 1-800-372-2022.

Delaware Energy Assistance Program (DEAP) for single mothers

The Delaware Energy Assistance Program (DEAP) has options for low-income households. There is the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) that determines eligibility based on income levels. Apply for this program by calling the National Energy Assistance Referral Hotline at 1-866-674-6327. Contact Catholic Charities in your county to receive more information on how to apply.

TANF  cash assistance for single mothers

DSS has temporary cash assistance for needy individuals and families. The two main programs are General Assistance and Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF). Download a TANF application online and mail it to the closest DSS office.

Delaware has the resources to help single mothers along with their children and relatives. Research each company and organization to find out if you qualify and start the application process.

Have a question? Email us here anything that troubles you.

Want to give away free stuff? Let us know
If you want to give away free stuff to other single moms, let us know , and we will advertise here. You can find a link named " email us " at the top right of this website. Free stuff should be worth at least 500 usd.

Follow us on facebook for latest grants, and single mom tips + life hacks
We help single moms achieve their dream life. Kindly take five seconds to follow us on facebook page here -- https://www.facebook.com/Single-mothers-grants-102331632375784 NO SPAM GUARANTEED !! Just life tips and life hacks for our dear moms .

Kindly join our email newsletter for latest single mother grants ( 10,000+ subscribers and counting ), and life tips + life hacks
All latest grants and financial assistance programs will reach your email inbox directly for free.If you had already submitted your email on another page of this website, no need to submit again.

Popular grants for single mothers

https://singlemothersgrants.org/grants-for-single-mothers-in-delaware/

Section 8 assistance program for single mothers
Low Income financial assistance Programs for single mothers
Foreclosure Assistance Programs for single mothers
Mortgage assistance programs for single mothers
Medical Bills Assistance Programs for single moms
Get help with buying your medications
Financial Assistance Programs for Women
Organizations That Offer Free or Low-Cost Credit Counseling to single parents
Local Church Assistance Programs for single moms
Get Help from the Salvation Army
Get Free Legal Assistance and Advice
Help for single moms With Paying Off Student Loans
Catholic Charities Financial Assistance for single mothers
Get Help Paying Electric Bills
Get Help Paying Water Bills
LIHEAP Energy Assistance Program for single mothers
Low Income Assistance Programs
Most Helpful Government Assistance Programs for single mothers
Grants and Scholarships for Adults Back To School
Assistance Programs for American Indians
Assistance Programs for Hispanic single mothers
Popular Charities that Help single mothers With Bills
Financial Assistance Programs for Seniors
Financial assistance programs for disabled
Financial Assistance for Single Mothers
Assistance Programs for African American single mothers
Perkins loans for single mothers
Children’s health insurance program for single mothers
Grants for single moms with no health insurance
How to apply for government benefits
Food stamps for single mothers
Unemployment benefits for single mothers
Grants for paying telephone bills
Debt consolidation programs for single mothers
Bankruptcy assistance for single mothers
Government financial help for single mothers
WIC program for single mothers
Welfare benefits for single mothers
Education grants for single mothers
Cash assistance for single mothers
College grants for single mothers
Free scholarships for single mothers
Rent assistance for single mothers
Low income assistance for single mothers
Housing grants for single mothers
Child care assistance for single mothers
Grants for felons
Grants for african americans
Emergency financial help